.TH Z827 1 LOCAL

.SH NAME
z827 - compress and decompress text files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B z827 
.I filepath

.SH DESCRIPTION
z827 uses the z827 algorithm to compress and decompress text files.
If the filepath does not end in ".z827", the file is passed through
the compression algorithm. If it does, then the file is passed through
decompression.

Compressed files are saved to the same filepath appended with ".z827".
Decompressed files are saved to the same filepath with ".z827" removed.
If the compression or decompression succeeds, the original file is
deleted.

z827 compresses files by sending seven low-order bits to the output
bit-stream. Thie effectively deletes the high-order bit, which is always
0 for ASCII characters. Additionally, the size of the original file is
written to the start of the compressed file as a little-endian ordered
integer. This ensures decompression returns the exact original file.

.SH EXAMPLES
z827 myText.txt - Compress the file "myText.txt".

z827 mytext.txt.z827 - Decompress the resulting file.

.SH OPTIONS
No options available.

.SH NOTES
z827 only compresses files consisting entirely of ASCII characters.

.SH BUGS
Both compression and decompression may not function properly on platforms with
big-endian integer ordering. The endianness of the host machine is NOT tested
and compression will fail silently and still remove the source file.
Compression will fail with an error and not remove the source file.

To fix this bug, integer buffers would have to be loaded in reverse. This
requires extensive code modifications to both compression and decompression.

Additionally, it possible to compress and decompress non-ASCII files, provided
the high-order bit of all bytes in the original file are zero. This is considered
incorrect behavior and can not be gauranteed.

.SH MESSAGES AND EXIT CALLS
Exit codes are as follows:

 0: Normal function. File compressed or decompressed.

-1: More or less than 1 argument were provided. Prints help message.

-2: Could not open source file. Prints requested file path.

-3: Could not open destination file. Prints requested file path.

-4: Compression or decompression failed. May print reason.



.SH AUTHORS
Manpage written by James Tanner and Rachel Champoux.

z827 program written by James Tanner.
